---
tags: item
---
"From the primordial soup, consciousness spontaneously emerged in the form of the primordials. Some of the primordials converged to create The First World: Bahamut, Sardior and Tiamat. They created offspring to populate that world, and welcomed other primordials to dwell the world. The First World was a manifestation of strangeness and dynamism, with every interaction between primordials, dragons and the world shaping the world anew. For a while, everything just was. After a time, more of the primordials wanted to create offspring to fill the world, and the elves were created. The primordials who created them grew more powerful and their followers increasingly started shaping the world to their benefit. This started the First Conflict.  
  
In the First Conflict, Bahamut, the metallic dragons and the primordials who created the elves (now called “gods”) were pitted against Tiamat, the chromatic dragons and the primordials devoid of followers (the “faithless”) as the first group wanted to further explore the new changes to the world, where the second group wanted to go back to the time before the creation of the elves. Meanwhile, Sardior and the gem dragons stayed out of the conflict to work on a blueprint for a new world that would solve all. The First Conflict ended with the utter destruction of the First World and many of the Primordials and creations that dwelled in it. From the rubble of the First World, Sardior and the gem dragons attempted to make the New World, drawing on the nexi of power left by the deceased primordials. and secretly siphoning off essence of Bahamut and Tiamat. Sardior succeeded, but at a great price: their consciousness was scattered across the New World that they created. The New World consisted of the Plane of Elements, populated by the Faithless; the Plane of Matter, populated by the creations of the Primordials; and the Plane of Consciousness, populated by the Gods, Bahamut and Tiamat.  
  
This all worked well for a while, until the Gods tried a second experiment: they created many new races with less power than the First Races, thinking that this way the new offspring could share the world and avoid (world shattering) conflict. The new races (especially dwarves, elves and humans) turned out to be individually less powerful, but collectively more powerful than the Dragons, who gradually lost their large, expansive domains by encroaching groups of humanoids. They changed tactic and increasingly mingled with the new races in their civilisations, adopting them into their terroritories, and unbeknownst to the humanoids, steering them in a direction that benefitted the Dragons. They still keep their Domains in remote locations, where they can roam freely in their authentic form without being spotted."

*by [[Azinar Val'Dessar]], ERK Academy, Waterdeep*